psasim: update README file (#10032)
Mbed-TLS/mbedtls: tests/psa-client-server/psasim/README.md

# psasim

PSASIM holds necessary C source and header files which allows to test Mbed TLS in a "pure crypto client" scenario, i.e `MBEDTLS_PSA_CRYPTO_CLIENT && !MBEDTLS_PSA_CRYPTO_C`.
In practical terms it means that this allow to build PSASIM with Mbed TLS sources and get 2 Linux applications, a client and a server, which are connected through Linux's shared memeory, and in which the client relies on the server to perform all PSA Crypto operations.

> The goal of PSASIM is _not_ to provide a ready-to-use solution for anyone looking to implement the pure crypto client structure (see [Limitations](#limitations) for details), but to prove that it is possible to build and use Mbed TLS with a clean separation between the client and the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of PSASIM is _not_ to provide a ready-to-use solution for anyone looking to implement the pure crypto client structure (see [Limitations](#limitations) for details), but to provide a reference tf-psa-crypto RPC implementation using Mbed TLS.
```

Author: Mmmm I'm not sure about the word `reference implementation` in the fixed sentence you proposed. PSASIM in current state is not a reference, it's just an example. I think I will go for this wording.

Reviewer 2: Indeed this is not a reference implementation, it's a test implementation. In particular, it doesn't attempt to be secure in any way. It's just a functional simulator.

## Limitations

> In current implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current implementation:
```

- Only Linux PC is supported.
- There can be only 1 client connected to 1 server.
- Shared memory is the only communication medium allowed. Others can be implemented (ex: net sockets), but in terms of simulation speed shared memory proved to be the fastest.
- Server is not secure at all: keys and operation structs are stored on the RAM, so they can easily be dumped.

## Testing

> For a quick and easy test of PSASIM it's strongly suggested to rely on the following 2 test components from `tests/scripts/components-psasim.sh`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to `tests/scripts/components-psasim.sh` for guidance on how to build & test PSASIM:
```

- `component_test_psasim()`: builds the server and a couple of test clients which are used to evaluate some basic PSA Crypto API commands.

> - `component_test_suite_with_psasim()`: builds the server and _all_ the usual test suites (those found under the `<mbedtls-root>/tests/suites/*` folder) which are used by the CI and runs them. Only very few suites are skipped here (`test_suite_constant_time_hmac`,`test_suite_lmots`,`test_suite_lms`) , not because they cannot be run, but just because they take extremely long to execute and this is not nice for the CI.

Reviewer: I think that segment could be reworded

> Only very few suites are skipped here (`test_suite_constant_time_hmac`,`test_suite_lmots`,`test_suite_lms`) , not because they cannot be run, but just because they take extremely long to execute and this is not nice for the CI.

A small subset of test suites (`test_suite_constant_time_hmac`,`test_suite_lmots`,`test_suite_lms`) are being skipped, for CI turnover time optimization. They can be run locally if required.

> Both these test components show all the necessary steps which are required to build and run client and server.

Reviewer: I would remove that it is explained above?

## How to update automatically generated files

> Most of the PSASIM code is automatically generated using Perl scripts. In particular:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A significant portion of the intermediate code of PSASIM is auto-generated using Perl.
```

- `psa_sim_serialise.[c|h]`:
    - Generated by `psa_sim_serialise.pl`.
    - These files provide the serialisation/deserialisation support that is required to pass functions' parameters between client and server.
- `psa_sim_crypto_[client|server].c` and `psa_functions_codes.h`:
    - Generated by `psa_sim_generate.pl`.
    - `psa_sim_crypto_[client|server].c` provide interfaces for PSA Crypto APIs on client and server sides, while `psa_functions_codes.h` simply enumerates all PSA Crypto APIs.

These files need to be regenerated whenever some PSA Crypto API is added/deleted/modified. The procedure is as follows:

- `psa_sim_serialise.[c|h]`:
    - go to `<mbedtls-root>/tests/psa-client-server/psasim/src/`
    - run `./psa_sim_serialise.pl h > psa_sim_serialise.h`
    - run `./psa_sim_serialise.pl c > psa_sim_serialise.c`
- `psa_sim_crypto_[client|server].c` and `psa_functions_codes.h`:
    - go to Mbed TLS' root folder

>     - run `./tests/psa-client-server/psasim/src/psa_sim_generate.pl`

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason why these updates are not done in `check-generated-files.sh`?

Similar to `generate_psa_wrappers.py`, whose build products are temporarily checked in — although we could stop doing that because the reason no longer applies. (It was temporary until we finished reviewing the script, but it is reviewed now.)

For that matter, why are the psasim generated files still checked in?

Author: Both good questions, but I think that the answer to both is that work on `psasim` was never finalized and it stopped at 2024-Q2 state. Increasing the scope of this PR might make it longer to review and discourage reviewers to look at it (because `psasim` activity is in backlog and everybody is already super busy with current EPICs).
What I propose to do is to keep this one as is, because at least it describes the current state, and then open a new issue to track what's left to be done. How does this sounds to you?

Reviewer 2: Fine by me.

Do you think there's any reason why we'd actively want the CI to pass if the files aren't up to date (as opposed to just spending time to do so)?

Author: > Fine by me.

Issue created for the PSASIM enhancement: https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls/issues/10034.

> Do you think there's any reason why we'd actively want the CI to pass if the files aren't up to date (as opposed to just spending time to do so)?

No, I'm more for the opposite actually. For example in https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls/pull/10027 I had to fix missing entries for `psa_export_public_key_iop_xxx` which clearly did not belong to my PR.
So right now it might happen that PSASIM does not fail in CI if new PSA functions are added/modified/deleted, but then the one who will have to update PSASIM for any reason, will face all the disparities at once and they will likely need to fix everything in a single PR. That's not really elegant of course
